---
layout: post
comments: true
title: OSMC 2012 Slides
subtitle: "A deep dive into Behavior-Driven Infrastructure"
---

A little late, but here're the slides from my talk at this year's [Open Source Monitoring Conference](http://www.netways.de/en/osmc/osmc_2012/uebersicht/) in Nuremberg, Germany about [cucumber-nagios](http://auxesis.github.com/cucumber-nagios/) and *Behavior-Driven infrastructure* in general.

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="5082ec4d16da7d00020319a8" data-ratio="1.2263473053892215" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### My verdict

The talk got a 4.0 rating on [SpeakerRate](http://speakerrate.com/talks/16231-cucumber-nagios-a-deep-dive-into-behavior-driven-infrastructure) and people also gave good feedback afterwards which makes me feel pleased overall. I think I did well for not being "on stage" for a couple years though lots of things could've been done better.

Here's what didn't went so well from my perspective:

#### Fonts

Courier New, *Regular*, you're dismissed! It looks marvellous on slides, especially on dark backgrounds, but projected on a wall it's a bloody mess. It might work for people in the front row, but that's about it. Had to improvise and to read out loud a lot of code to explain stuff to the audience.

#### Content

Some aspects of the subject were a bit underrepresented. I know it's almost impossible to put every aspect in a 45 minute presentation, but I'm pretty sure that I lost a few people due to the way I explained coherencies. The central theme could've been even more clear.

#### Pace

**A presentation is not a race!** I designed the talk to be around 45 minutes long with 15 minutes left for Q&A. Somehow I managed to finish the presentation in about 30 to 35 minutes and I realized this way too late. This could've been easily avoided with more practice.

#### Style

No cheesy jokes about local peculiarities when presenting in front of an international audience next time. I still don't know what made me think that this could work. Luckily I only did this at the very beginning and went ahead on-topic pretty quick.

### Learnings:

* More emphasis on font style
* Ease up on stage. No need to hurry...
* No dull jokes on local peculiarities
* And most important: **More practice**
